IBX 4348: "Create Product" article added in User Documentation (#166)
ezsystems/user-documentation: docs/pim/create_product.md

---
description: Create new products or modify existing ones.
---

> # Create products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create and edit products
```

[Products](products.md#products) are a specific kind of [Content items](../content_management/content_items.md#content-items) that you use 
to present your offer in the website, including product specification, and pricing.

> Individual products are instances of [product types](create_product_types.md#create-product-types).

Reviewer: I'd merge these three sentences into one paragraph. To do it, remove empty lines between them.

Author: Ok, updated

> Individual products are instances of [product types](create_product_types.md#create-product-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Individual products are instances of [Product Types](create_product_types.md#create-product-types).
```

You can only create or modify products when your [user role](../permission_management/work_with_permissions.md) has the `Product/Edit` permission.

To create a product, depending on the configuration, you [may need to provide](products.md#product-completeness) certain pieces of information, 
such as a name, SKU, description and images, attributes, assets, availability, prices, and translations.

You can create product by using manual or bulk method.
Bulk method can be used only at the developer level. See [Products](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/pim/product_api/#products) for a technical guide on how to do this.

## Manually create product

You can create product in several ways:

> 1. Click **Create** in the upper-right corner of the [Products](products.md) screen. 

Reviewer: I'd change this into a bulleted list - these not steps that need to be done in order, these are options to choose from.

Author: Ok, updated

2. While viewing a **Product Catalog** in the [Content Tree](../getting_started/discover_ui.md#content-tree), click **Create content** at the top of the screen.
The new item appears in the tree.
3. Click **Create content** in the upper-right corner of the [My dashboard](../getting_started/discover_ui.md) screen. In this case you have to choose Content Type and select where the content will be located.

> 1\. If you are adding a new product use one of the methods mentioned above and continue with the procedure.
> If you want to edit existing product, click the **Edit** button next to a name of the product item that you want to modify and skip to step 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1\. If you are adding a new product, use one of the methods mentioned above and  and skip to step 3.

2\. If you are editing an existing product, click the **Edit** button next to a name of the product item that you want to modify and skip to step 4.
```

![Adding a Product](img/add_product.png "Adding a Product")

![Editing a product](img/edit_product.png "Editing a product")

> 2\. From their lists, select the language and the product type, and then click the **Add** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3\. From their lists, select the language and the product type, and then click the **Add** button.
```

> 3\. Fill in or edit content fields of the product, for example, name, specification and description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4\. Fill in or edit content fields of the product, for example, name, specification and description.
```

> The [Fields](../content_management/content_model.md#fields-and-field-types) that you have to populate depend on how the Product Type is defined. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I'd remove this sentence from the step and merge it with a sentence in line 14 above, to create something like:

"To create a product, depending on how the Product Type is defined, you [may need to provide](products.md#product-completeness) certain pieces of information in their respective [Fields](../content_management/content_model.md#fields-and-field-types),"

Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required.

> 4\. In the Attributes section, define the product's attributes, for example dimensions, resolution or capacity. Attributes depend on defined Product Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5\. In the Attributes section, define the product's attributes, for example, dimensions, resolution or capacity. 
```

Author: Ok, updated

and some of them can be required.

> 5\. If you are adding new product, click **Create** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6\. If you are adding a new product, click the **Create** button.
```

> If you are editing existing one, click **Update** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are editing an existing one, click the **Update** button.
```

![Creating a product](img/create_product.png "Creating a product")

> ## Work with products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can also [add image assets](work_with_product_assets.md) to the products, [create variants to the main product](work_with_product_variants.md), [define prices](manage_prices_and_stock.md) and [clasify products into different categories](work_with_product_categories.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create a product, you can [add image assets to a product](work_with_product_assets.md), [create variants to the main product](work_with_product_variants.md), [define product prices](manage_prices_and_stock.md), and [clasify products into different categories](work_with_product_categories.md).
```

> Be aware that some functinalities may differ depending on the specifics of the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note

    Feature availability may differ depending on the specifics of your installation.
```

---

# Create product

If your [user role](../permission_management/work_with_permissions.md) has the `Product/Edit` permission, you can modify product and add individual attributes or attribute groups. You can create new [products](products.md#products) to present your offer in the website, including product specification, and pricing. 
Each product has a unique identifying product code. 

!!! note

    To create a product you must first create [product type](products.md#product-types).

## Manually create product

You can create product in several ways:

- In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Products** and click **Create** button.
- In the left panel, go to **Content** -> **Content structure** -> **Product catalog** and click **Create content** button.
- In the left panel, go to **Content** -> **Dashboard** and click **Create content** button.
- In the search bar type 'product' -> click **Product catalog** and click **Create** button.

## Add single product

1\. In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Products** and click **Create** button. 

![Adding a Product](img/add_product.png "Adding a Product")

2\. Choose product type.

3\. Click **Add** button.

> 4\. Fill in basic product information: name, product specification, description and, if needed, other specific attributes. 

Reviewer 2: Sidenote: product structure is customizable on product type level

Author: Ok, description updated. 
As we discussed - let's wait for the update of 'Content Items' article, then we can add the link.

---
description: Create new products or modify existing ones.
---

> # Create product

Author: Ok, corrected

> If your [user role](../permission_management/work_with_permissions.md) has the `Product/Edit` permission, you can modify product and add individual attributes or attribute groups. You can create new [products](products.md#products) to present your offer in the website, including product specification, and pricing. 

Author: Break lines added

Each product has a unique identifying product code (SKU). [Product consists of](products.md#product-completeness) content, attributes, assests, availability, price and translation.

> !!! note

Author: "Note" removed

>     To create a product you must first create [product type](products.md#product-types).

Author: "Note" removed

## Manually create product

You can create product in several ways:

- In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Products** and click **Create** button.
- In the left panel, go to **Content** -> **Content structure** -> **Product catalog** and click **Create content** button.
- In the left panel, go to **Content** -> **Dashboard** and click **Create content** button.

> - In the search bar type 'product' -> click **Product catalog** and click **Create** button.

Author: Ok, link to dev doc about bulk method added

## Add single product

1\. In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Products** and click **Create** button. 

![Adding a Product](img/add_product.png "Adding a Product")

2\. Choose product type.

3\. Click **Add** button.

4\. Fill in basic product information: name, product specification, description and, if needed, other specific attributes. 

> 5\. Click **Create** button.

Author: Ok, added

![Creating a product](img/create_product.png "Creating a product")

> You can also [add image assets](work_with_product_assets.md) to products.

Author: Ok, added

!!! note

>     Product structure is customizable on product type level.

Author: "Note" removed

## Edit product

You can edit existing products at any time:

1\. In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Products**.

2\. Click the **Edit** button next to a name of the product item that you want to modify.

![Editing a product](img/edit_product.png "Editing a product")

> 3\. Edit information and click **Update** button.

Author: Editing part merged with creating product procedure

> ## Work with products

Author: Ok, links added
